Requirement to run selenium scripts:
-Used Eclipse Enterprise Edition 2019-12

Setup:
1. Create Maven project 
  - select check box "Create simple project"
  - Artifact Id:project name
  - Group Id:package name
2. Add Dependencies in pom.xml file
3. Go to mvn repository
4. Search Selenium java
5. Search WebDriverManager
6. Search TestNg
7. Copy and paste it in pom.xml
8. Create a class inside src/main/java
9. Write scripts in java
9. Run as java application


SELENIUM AUTOMATION
INTERVIEW PREPARATION


1. How selenium came into picture
2. Manual Testing and it's limitation
3. What is selenium
4. Advantages of selenium automation
5. Limitations of selenium automation


Q.What is manual testing?
- A physical execution of the test cases against various applications... to detect errors and bugs
- One of the primitive methods of testing a software
- Execution of test cases without using automation tool
- Does not require the knowledge of a testing tool
- Can practically test application

-Use Case
Let I am be testing a facebook application
1. Create an account module
2. Accessibility Testing
3. Performance Testing
4. Checking elements like radio buttons

-Limitations of Manual Testing
1. Extremely time consuming
2. High error of risk
3. Requires a tester all the time
4. Manual Creation of logs and repositories
5. No support for performance and batch testing

-About Selenium 
1. Selenium was introduced by Jason Huggins he was an engineer at though works
2. He Developed a JavaScript program to automate the testing of a web application
3. The program was called JavaScriptTestRunner
4. Initially, the new invention was deployed by the inmates at ThoughWorks. However in 2024 it was renamed as selenium 
and was made Open Source renamed as Selenium and was made open source

Q. How does selenium help?
1. It executes test cases fast
2. Accurate results...no human errors
3. Lesser investment in human resources
4. Time & Cost effective
5. Early time to market
6. Support re-testing

More About Selenium Tool
-Selenium is an automated testing tool used to test web application across various browsers
like: Safari, Edge, Chrome, Opera

Q. Why Selenium?
1. Open Source and platform independent
2. Can be coded in many programming languages
3. Primarily developed in JavaScript
4. Consist to a set of software tools that facilitates testing (components of selenium)
5. Provides a record/playback tool for authoring tests without learning a test scripting language
6. We can run selenium script on any platform and browser

Selenium IDE
1. We can write selenium scripts in any languages
Ex: Java, Python, Ruby, C#
2. We don't need in depth knowledge of any programming language that selenium supports
3. It Support scripts works on all the platforms like: Windows, Linux, Mac
4. Hence Selenium is most popular and widely used open source tool to test web applications

Selenium is a suite of tools 

Selenium Components
1. Selenium IDE:
2. Selenium RC(Remote Controller): It interacts with the browser with help of RC servers...How it gets interacts?
Using HTTP get and post request methods
3. Selenium RC was deprecated in version selenium 2.0 and completely replaced by web drivers

Most Important component of selenium 
1. Selenium Web Driver: It is an programming interface to create and execute test cases.
2. Selenium Web Driver are the successors of selenium RC
3. Selenium Grid: It is used to run multiple test scripts on multiple machines at the same time,
It helps in parallel execution

Selenium IDE Components
1. Developed by shinya kastani in 2006
2. Fire fox add-on that helps create tests
3. Easy to use interface on the browser and exports them as a reusable script
4. Generally used as prototyping tool

Advancements with new selenium IDE
1. Reusability of test scripts
2. Debugging the scripts
3. Selenium Side Runner: Using this we can execute test case on any browser
4. Provision for control flow statements
5. Improved locator functionality

Test Case
Open Amazon.in
Search for iPhone
In the Search Page, assert the title of the page

Step 1:
Add a new test case: AmazonSearch in selenium IDE
get the URL of it

Limitations of selenium IDE
1. Cannot export to WebDriver scripts yet
2. Does not support data-driven testing yet
3. Can not perform database testing
4. Can not provide detailed test report

Selenium RC
1. Pay Hanmant developed selenium RC
2. Selenium RC is a server written in Java
3. RC makes provision for writing application tests in various programming language like java, C#, Perl, PHP
python etc.
4. The RC server accepts commands from user program and passes them to the browser as selenium-core JavaScripts
commands

Short Comings of selenium RC
1. RC Consists of an additional server that acts as a middle man
2. This Additional Setup Complicates the architecture
3. The Time taken for execution of commands is longer
4. API's Supported by selenium RC are redundant and confusing

Selenium WebDriver









